README.md, before:

# Unity Editor Scripts
Collection of simple Unity editor scripts written to improve workflow and learn C# and Unity editor scripting at the same time.

## Editor Scripts
These scripts work when they are located in an Editor folder in a Unity project.

#### Scripts:
* [Capture](#Capture)
* [Process Icons](#Process-Icons)
* [Toggle Selection](#Toggle-Selection)
* [SceneView Parent](#SceneView-Parent)
* [Lock Transforms](#Lock-Transforms)
* [Snapshot Mesh](#Snapshot-Mesh)
* [Control RectTransform](#Control-RectTransform)


---

### Capture
For capturing screenshots. 
Uses camera with MainCamera tag.
Can take oversized screenshots, capture transparency and capture from Scene View.
Menu item is located under Tools menu.

![Capture Menu](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/CaptureMenu.png "Capture.cs and CaptureWithHotkey.cs")

Capture Options menu item is for changing preferences and taking screencaptures.
Capture is for taking screencaptures with a hotkey using the current preferences set.

![Capture Options](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/CaptureOptions.png "Capture.cs")

**Hotkey** Capture Options Ctrl+Shift+W

**Hotkey** Capture Ctrl+W

TO DO:
- [ ] See if the code can be simplified/ cleaned up
- [ ] Reorganize layout groups
- [ ] Add possibility to choose camera
- [x] Reorganize where adding the file extension happens 
- [x] Make a version that captures screenshots with a hotkey based on the preferences set
- [x] Add option to capture from SceneView
- [ ] Add check if images are being saved inside the project

### Process Icons
Editor script for processing icons with Photoshop. This script makes it possible to batch process selected image files from Unity in Photoshop. It allows user to select a color to remove from the source image, trim the image by transparent pixels and resize it. It is most useful for batch processing raw images taken inside of Unity to game ready icons. Menu item is located under Tools menu. 

![Process Icons](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/ProcessIcons.png "ProcessIcons.cs")

![Process Icons Example](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/ProcessIconsExample.png "Process icons example")

TO DO:
- [x] Add new resize options
- [ ] Update config saving and loading logic
- [ ] Rename to process images

NOTE:
- Path to Photoshop.exe needs to be defined by the user in the editor window.
- The script expects ExtendScript(ProcessIcon.jsx) to be in Assets/Editor/Resources folder. If it is elsewhere the user has to set the path to it in the editor window. However the config file needs to be in the same folder as the ExtendScript.

### Toggle Selection
For toggling object selection between none and all.
If something is selected deselects it and if nothing is selected selects everything.
Menu item is located under the Edit menu.

**Hotkey** Ctrl+Shift+A

### SceneView Parent
For parenting objects while working in the SceneView.
Parents selected objects to the active object when SceneView is the active view.

**Hotkey** Ctrl+F

### Lock Transforms
For locking transforms of selected objects.
Made mainly to ease working with UI elements so that it is possible to transform the parent object without affecting the children.
Menu item is located under Tools menu.

![LockTransforms](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/LockTransforms.png "LockTransforms.cs")

TO DO:
- [ ] Add proper support for Undo. Currently Undo doesn't work with rectTransform elements.

NOTE:
- Rotating non-uniformly scaled parent object will make the locked children skew. This problem only occurs with the rotate tool (E) but not while roting UI element with the rect tool (T).
- While 3D objects correctly support undo UI elements do not. With UI elements (rectTransform) undo works correctly while elements are locked. However after unlocking  it is not adviced to undo into operations performed while objects were locked as this causes undesired behaviour. This can be prevented by locking the objects again before performing the undo operations.

### Snapshot Mesh
Work in progress version of an editor script for taking snapshots of skinned meshes.
Menu item is located under Tools menu.

![Snapshot Mesh](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/SnapshotMesh.png "SnapshotMesh.cs")

TO DO:
- [ ] Clean up/ simplify code
- [ ] Add support for material duplication when keep rig selected
- [ ] Add Editorprefs support
- [ ] Rethink naming of new assets
- [ ] Check if assets paths are valid before doing any operations
- [ ] Study how to properly deleted script components that are depended on each other
- [ ] Make relationship of preferences obvious (which ones are relevant in which cases)
- [ ] Add support for Undo

### Control RectTransform
For bypassing the Unity bug that sometimes recttransform fields stay locked if you delete a layout element or group component.
Issue tracker shows that this bug should be fixed by Unity in 2018.3 beta but this editor script offers a workaround for other versions of Unity.\
Target Transform fields updates the transforms immediately and Source Transform allows for setting specific values before applying them.
Menu item is located under Tools menu.

![Control RectTransform](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/ControlRectTransform.png "ControlRectTransform.cs")

Note: The anchor preset window is not functional on the custom editor window.\
Note: Another possible approach for bypassing this bug would have been to rebuild the affected gameobject to get the fields unlocked.

Commit message:

Add compatibility notice to README
Include a warning about potential compatibility issues due to ongoing Unity updates and the scripts not being maintained.

README.md, after:

# Unity Editor Scripts
Collection of simple Unity editor scripts written to improve workflow and learn C# and Unity editor scripting at the same time.

---
### ⚠️ Important Notice

As of 2024, these Unity editor scripts have not been updated for approximately 5 years. During this time, Unity has released multiple updates which may have introduced changes that affect the functionality of these scripts. Due to these updates, the scripts may not function as intended with current or future versions of Unity.

**Users are advised to use these scripts with caution as they may require modifications to work correctly with newer versions of Unity.**

---

## Editor Scripts
These scripts work when they are located in an Editor folder in a Unity project.

#### Scripts:
* [Capture](#Capture)
* [Process Icons](#Process-Icons)
* [Toggle Selection](#Toggle-Selection)
* [SceneView Parent](#SceneView-Parent)
* [Lock Transforms](#Lock-Transforms)
* [Snapshot Mesh](#Snapshot-Mesh)
* [Control RectTransform](#Control-RectTransform)


---

### Capture
For capturing screenshots. 
Uses camera with MainCamera tag.
Can take oversized screenshots, capture transparency and capture from Scene View.
Menu item is located under Tools menu.

![Capture Menu](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/CaptureMenu.png "Capture.cs and CaptureWithHotkey.cs")

Capture Options menu item is for changing preferences and taking screencaptures.
Capture is for taking screencaptures with a hotkey using the current preferences set.

![Capture Options](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/CaptureOptions.png "Capture.cs")

**Hotkey** Capture Options Ctrl+Shift+W

**Hotkey** Capture Ctrl+W

TO DO:
- [ ] See if the code can be simplified/ cleaned up
- [ ] Reorganize layout groups
- [ ] Add possibility to choose camera
- [x] Reorganize where adding the file extension happens 
- [x] Make a version that captures screenshots with a hotkey based on the preferences set
- [x] Add option to capture from SceneView
- [ ] Add check if images are being saved inside the project

### Process Icons
Editor script for processing icons with Photoshop. This script makes it possible to batch process selected image files from Unity in Photoshop. It allows user to select a color to remove from the source image, trim the image by transparent pixels and resize it. It is most useful for batch processing raw images taken inside of Unity to game ready icons. Menu item is located under Tools menu. 

![Process Icons](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/ProcessIcons.png "ProcessIcons.cs")

![Process Icons Example](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/ProcessIconsExample.png "Process icons example")

TO DO:
- [x] Add new resize options
- [ ] Update config saving and loading logic
- [ ] Rename to process images

NOTE:
- Path to Photoshop.exe needs to be defined by the user in the editor window.
- The script expects ExtendScript(ProcessIcon.jsx) to be in Assets/Editor/Resources folder. If it is elsewhere the user has to set the path to it in the editor window. However the config file needs to be in the same folder as the ExtendScript.

### Toggle Selection
For toggling object selection between none and all.
If something is selected deselects it and if nothing is selected selects everything.
Menu item is located under the Edit menu.

**Hotkey** Ctrl+Shift+A

### SceneView Parent
For parenting objects while working in the SceneView.
Parents selected objects to the active object when SceneView is the active view.

**Hotkey** Ctrl+F

### Lock Transforms
For locking transforms of selected objects.
Made mainly to ease working with UI elements so that it is possible to transform the parent object without affecting the children.
Menu item is located under Tools menu.

![LockTransforms](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/LockTransforms.png "LockTransforms.cs")

TO DO:
- [ ] Add proper support for Undo. Currently Undo doesn't work with rectTransform elements.

NOTE:
- Rotating non-uniformly scaled parent object will make the locked children skew. This problem only occurs with the rotate tool (E) but not while roting UI element with the rect tool (T).
- While 3D objects correctly support undo UI elements do not. With UI elements (rectTransform) undo works correctly while elements are locked. However after unlocking  it is not adviced to undo into operations performed while objects were locked as this causes undesired behaviour. This can be prevented by locking the objects again before performing the undo operations.

### Snapshot Mesh
Work in progress version of an editor script for taking snapshots of skinned meshes.
Menu item is located under Tools menu.

![Snapshot Mesh](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/SnapshotMesh.png "SnapshotMesh.cs")

TO DO:
- [ ] Clean up/ simplify code
- [ ] Add support for material duplication when keep rig selected
- [ ] Add Editorprefs support
- [ ] Rethink naming of new assets
- [ ] Check if assets paths are valid before doing any operations
- [ ] Study how to properly deleted script components that are depended on each other
- [ ] Make relationship of preferences obvious (which ones are relevant in which cases)
- [ ] Add support for Undo

### Control RectTransform
For bypassing the Unity bug that sometimes recttransform fields stay locked if you delete a layout element or group component.
Issue tracker shows that this bug should be fixed by Unity in 2018.3 beta but this editor script offers a workaround for other versions of Unity.\
Target Transform fields updates the transforms immediately and Source Transform allows for setting specific values before applying them.
Menu item is located under Tools menu.

![Control RectTransform](https://github.com/korintic/UnityEditorScripts/blob/master/Images/ControlRectTransform.png "ControlRectTransform.cs")

Note: The anchor preset window is not functional on the custom editor window.\
Note: Another possible approach for bypassing this bug would have been to rebuild the affected gameobject to get the fields unlocked.
